.. title: Trusting Computers
.. slug: trusting-computers
.. date: 2015-10-08 17:40:03 UTC
.. tags: gpg, public key, information security, trust
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: Information security, privacy, data integrity and trust
.. type: text


Information leakage
===================

The world is witnessing massive leaks of information on a daily basis.

Much of this information is emerging from insecure computers, as a
result of highly publicised security breaches:

* Target
  
* Ashley Madison
  
* US Office of Personnell Managegment
  
The VW emissions scandal is another interesting example of company
secrets leaking out.

In this case, the leak came as a result of scientists that were doing
research aimed at showing that it was possible to run diesel vehicles
with low emissions.

The wonderfully named John German and Peter Mock described the
research as follows:

    German explained that the idea to carry out the test, which he
    described as *very ordinary*, came from Peter Mock, a colleague in
    Europe, who noticed discrepancies in the emissions of the diesel VW
    Passat and VW Jetta. He said they decided to carry out on-the-road
    tests in the US as the emissions regulations are much stricter than in
    the EU. They expected the cars to pass and they could use this as
    proof to show Europeans that it was possible to run diesels with
    cleaner emissions.

So, they were actually doing research that, had it confirmed their
hypothesis, would have likely been very beneficial to VW.

Instead, they discovered how VW were actually rigging emissions tests.

In this case the information has leaked due to diligent scientific
research, done in the the open and shared with the public.

Scientific research is becoming increasingly open, with scientists
sharing data and knowledge internationally.

I suspect that the VW case will just be the tip of an iceberg, with
many other examples of corporate bad science coming to light in the
future.

Information is leaking and not just due to computer insecurity.

Information Sharing
===================

At the same time, people have been sharing vast quantities of personal
information on social media sites.

The convenience and the ability to connect to loved ones, friends and
people with shared interests has largely outweighed concerns about
privacy.

This open sharing has probably mitigated the impact of security
breaches such as Ashley Madison: in short, most people choose not to
look.

Computers know you better than your partner
-------------------------------------------

In many respects, my partner knows me better than I know myself.

More concerning is that many computers may well know me better than
even my partner knows me.


Data integrity
==============

Very little data on computers is digitally signed.  Very few computers
are truly secure, yet computer evidence is regularly used in legal
prosecutions.

It is worth considering what is the basis for this trust in
information on computers.

Information and Power
=====================

Social Trust
============

I would argue that trust in all data comes from experimentation and
experience.

Over time, we learn to trust our computers.  We become attached to
certain applications: emacs, vi, excel, linux, windows, OS/X.

Where these tools have helped us or brought us happiness we embrace
them.

For most, sharing our personal data, such as family photos, stories,
thoughts, software we have written, art we have created has been a
positive experience.

It is like any social relationship.  Over time we build trust.  Things
work, nothing bad happens.  All is good, until it isn't.

When trust breaks down in a relationship things can come back to hurt
you.  Shared secrets, no longer secret.  Just ask David Cameron about
pigs. 

Social Respect and Responsibility
=================================

Damage from computer leaks has been greatly mitigated by people acting
with social responsibility.

We could all have trawled through Ashley Madison, but most chose not
to do so, respecting people's privacy.

It is no different to how people behave in social situations.
Confidences are shared and respected allo the time.

Just because they are shared with a computer does not change that
social contract.

And in many cases there is a recognition that we are living in a world
of *mututally assured destruction*.

Amicable separations are generally better for all concerned.


Open Organisations
==================

RedHat CEO, Jim Whitehurst, has written about Open Organisations.

Many organisations are starting to look at the balance between the
costs of keeping secrets and the benefits of openly sharing
information.

Encryption
==========

Michael Hayden, former director of NSA, surprised many by advocating
wider use of secure encryption.

He argued that the balance between defensive and offensive
capabilities in information security has become out of whack.  Lack of
security is a bigger problem.

Further, computer insecurity is allowing mass surveillance of
citizens.

Those storing our secrets on their computers have, in many cases,
proved incapable of keeping those secrets secure.

People are starting to think more carefully about what they should
share and what they should keep private.

At the same time, fear of surveillance is impeding free exchange of
information, in some cases this is hindering greater understanding
between different communities.

The internet is in danger of becoming balkanised.  Indeed, this is
already happening, with people gravitating to online communities which
share their philosophies.

Privacy
=======

We all have some information we only want to share with a select fiew.

Some information we choose to keep to ourselves, this can be the
easiest to deal with.  At the same time, it can be troublesome:
discussing with a trusted friend can help us digest that information,
keeping to yourself may not be healthy.

Other information we may wish to share with anyone and everyone.  The
Free and Open Software movement is an exellent example of such
information sharing.

Further, the open sharing and development in open communities can create
an unprecedented level of trust in that software.

Now whatever you are using to secure information, the question is not
whether it will leak, but when and to whom?

Treat your computer like a good friend.  You share a confidence and
find that it has been spread all round town, maybe you have a word,
find out what happened and adjust accordingly.

Computer security is just the same.  But as with close friends, the
situation is dynamic.  New evidence will appear from time to time.

And you cannot unshare what has been shared.

Data Integrity and homeomorphic encryption
==========================================

When information leaks, there are always questions to the integrity of
that information.  There are supposedly pictures of the unfortunate
pig, but happily they have not emerged as yet.

Homeomorphic encryption is essentially story telling:  maintain the
essence of a story, but blur the details to protect individuals.

Shared secrets
==============

Much of our basis of trust in society comes from shared secrets.  I
trust you with my confidences, you trust me with yours.  

Traditional cryptography depends on both parties who are trying to
communicate having a shared secret, say a passphrase that they both
know, but are confident that nobody else knows.

For people who meet regularly, establishing a shared secret is easy.
Meet in a cafe, and write it down on a piece of papaer.

For those that are remote from each the problem is more complex.

Public Key Cryptography
=======================

There is one magical tool that helps here: public key cryptography.

The idea is that Bob can publish his public key and share it with
anyone.

Alice can take his public key and use it to encrypt a message.

To decrypt the message you need Bob's private key.

James Ellis, GCHQ

Cliff Cocks, GCHQ

Digital signatures
------------------


 

One passphrase to rule them all

Free software
=============

Gnu Privacy Guard
=================

cf pretty good privacy

entymology
==========
